content/articles/v1.6.35/index.md, before:

### 🎉 New Features

- **[undefined]**
  - Add new "Input Copy Button" plugin for single-line text fields ([#6894](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6894)) by @kerwin612

  - Add new "Input Copy Button" plugin for single-line text fields ([#6894](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6894)) by @kerwin612

  - New support for Gitpod allows you to start the development environment with one click and quickly begin development. ([#6922](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6922)) by @kerwin612

### 🚀 Improvements

- **[client]**
  - Fix issue where hidden form controls captured tab key, significantly improving form operation efficiency ([#6942](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6942)) by @kerwin612

  - support configuring whether menu links open in a new window ([#6918](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6918)) by @katherinehhh

  - validate required fields before showing confirmation dialog ([#6931](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6931)) by @katherinehhh

### 🐛 Bug Fixes

- **[client]**
  - paginate association field dropdown data with page size of 200 ([#6950](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6950)) by @katherinehhh

  - Incorrect highlight position when dragging table rows ([#6952](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6952)) by @chenos

  - Block resize by dragging not working ([#6944](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6944)) by @chenos

  - field assignment component i18n not working ([#6945](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6945)) by @katherinehhh

  - Fix the issue with the copy button in the error pop-up copying out as [object Object]. ([#6908](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6908)) by @kerwin612

- **[Collection field: Markdown(Vditor)]** markdown-vditor field  component width issue after zoom in and out ([#6946](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6946)) by @katherinehhh

- **[Workflow: Approval]** Fix locale by @mytharcher

Commit message:

update: content/articles/v1.6.35/index.md

content/articles/v1.6.35/index.md, after:

### 🎉 New Features

- **[undefined]**
  - Add Gitpod support for one-click development environment startup ([#6922](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6922)) by @kerwin612

### 🚀 Improvements

- **[client]**
  - Optimize form Tab key interaction ([#6942](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6942)) by @kerwin612
  - support configuring whether menu links open in a new window ([#6918](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6918)) by @katherinehhh
  - validate required fields before showing confirmation dialog ([#6931](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6931)) by @katherinehhh

### 🐛 Bug Fixes

- **[client]**

  - paginate association field dropdown data with page size of 200 ([#6950](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6950)) by @katherinehhh
  - Incorrect highlight position when dragging table rows ([#6952](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6952)) by @chenos
  - Block resize by dragging not working ([#6944](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6944)) by @chenos
  - field assignment component i18n not working ([#6945](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6945)) by @katherinehhh
  - Error messages cannot be copied correctly ([#6908](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6908)) by @kerwin612
- **[Collection field: Markdown(Vditor)]** markdown-vditor field  component width issue after zoom in and out ([#6946](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase/pull/6946)) by @katherinehhh
- **[Workflow: Approval]** Fix translation content by @mytharcher
